README.md, before:

Last modified: 2014-04-13 12:00:30 tkych

Version: 0.01.04 (beta)


Quicksearch
===========

Quicksearch is a search-engine-interface for Common Lisp.
The goal of Quicksearch is to find the CL library quickly.
For example, if you will find the library about json, just type `(qs:? 'json)` at REPL.

The function `quicksearch` searches for CL projects in Quicklisp, Cliki,
GitHub and BitBucket, then outputs results in REPL.
The function `?` is abbreviation wrapper for `quicksearch`.


Depends-on
----------

 * [bordeaux-threads](http://common-lisp.net/project/bordeaux-threads/)
 * [iterate](http://common-lisp.net/project/iterate/)
 * [alexandria](http://common-lisp.net/project/alexandria/)
 * [anaphora](http://common-lisp.net/project/anaphora/)
 * [cl-ppcre](http://weitz.de/cl-ppcre/)
 * [drakma](http://weitz.de/drakma/)
 * [html-entities](https://code.google.com/p/html-entities/)
 * [yason](http://common-lisp.net/project/yason/)
 * [flexi-streams](http://weitz.de/flexi-streams/)
 * [do-urlencode](https://github.com/drdo/do-urlencode)
 

Installation
------------

#### cl-test-grid results:

 - http://common-lisp.net/project/cl-test-grid/library/quicksearch.html


##### Auto:

 0. CL-REPL> `(ql:quickload :quicksearch)`


##### Manual:

 0. SHELL$   `git clone https://github.com/tkych/quicksearch.git`
 1. CL-REPL> `(push #p"/path-to-quicksearch/quicksearch/" asdf:*central-registry*)`
 2. CL-REPL> `(ql:quickload :quicksearch)` or `(asdf:load-system :quicksearch)`


Examples
--------

##### Null result:

    CL-REPL> (qs:? "supercalifragilisticexpialidocious") ;<=> (qs:quicksearch "supercalifragilisticexpialidocious")
    NIL

 * If it raises a threading error, probably your CL system might be not support threads.
   In this case, please type `(qs:config :threading? nil)` at REPL, then try it again.
 * If search-results is null, then just return NIL.


##### Simple search:

    CL-REPL> (qs:? "crypt") ;<=> (qs:quicksearch "crypt")

    SEARCH-RESULTS: "crypt"

     Quicklisp
      crypt

     Cliki
      ARC4
      JARW
      VLM_on_Linux

     GitHub
      cl-crypt
      cl-crypto
      cl-crypto
      cryptography
      cryptoschool
      Cryptopsaras
    T

 * If search-results is not null, then results are printed and return T.
 * Since bitbucket-result is null, it is not printed.


##### Description:

    CL-REPL> (qs:? 'Crypt :d) ;<=> (qs:quicksearch 'Crypt :?description t)

    SEARCH-RESULTS: "crypt"
    =======================

     Quicklisp
     ---------
      crypt
          http://quickdocs.org/cl-crypt/

     Cliki
     -----
      ARC4
          A Common Lisp implementation of ARC4, a Cryptography code, can be found on
          the
      JARW
          Dr John AR Williams' utilities
      VLM_on_Linux
          Instructions for running the Symbolics VLM virtual machine on Linux

     GitHub
     ------
      cl-crypt
          Common-Lisp implementation of unix crypt function
      cl-crypto
          A common lisp package of ciphers, public-key algorithms, etc.
      cl-crypto
          Pure lisp crypto, written from specs
      cryptography
          implementations of ciphers for cryptography class
      cryptoschool
          Lisp files related to the cryptography class being taught by Ben Warner
      Cryptopsaras
          Reads files generated by Acinonyx.
    T

 * A symbol (as search-word) is automatically converted into a downcase-string.
 * If option `:d` is on, then the description of the project is printed (QuickDocs-url for Quicklisp-search).
 * The function QUICKSEARCH's options are redundant, but explanatory.
 * The function ?'s options are not explanatory, but minimum.


##### URL, Space, Cutoff:

    CL-REPL> (qs:? "crypt" :ug 4) ;<=> (qs:quicksearch "crypt"
                                  ;                    :?url t :?cut-off 4
                                  ;                    :?quicklisp nil :?cliki nil :?bitbucket nil)

    SEARCH-RESULTS: "crypt"
    =======================

     GitHub
     ------
      cl-crypt
          https://github.com/renard/cl-crypt
      cl-crypto
          https://github.com/bgs100/cl-crypto
      cl-crypto
          https://github.com/billstclair/cl-crypto
      cryptography
          https://github.com/MorganBauer/cryptography
      .......> 2
    T

 * If option `:u` is on, then the project's url is printed.
 * If option `:g` is on, then only github-results are printed
   (also `:q` - quicklisp, `:c` - cliki, `:b` - bitbutcket. these options are addable).
 * If cut-off is supplied (above 4), then the number of output results is bellow cut-off
   (the number (above 2) after `.......>` is number of remains).
 * The order of options is nothing to do with search-result
   (e.g. `:ug 4` <=> `4 :gu` <=> `:u 4 :g` <=> ...).


##### Config:

    CL-REPL> (qs:? 'lisp-koans :du 1) ;<=> (qs:quicksearch 'lisp-koans
                                      ;                    :?description t :?url t :?cut-off 1)

    SEARCH-RESULTS: "lisp-koans"
    ============================

     GitHub
     ------
      lisp-koans
          https://github.com/google/lisp-koans
          Common Lisp Koans is a language learning exercise in the same vein as the
          ruby koans, python koans and others.   It is a port of the prior koans
          with some modifications to highlight lisp-specific features.  Structured
          as ordered groups of broken unit tests, the project guides the learner
          progressively through many Common Lisp language features.
      .......> 4
    T

    CL-REPL> (qs:config :maximum-columns-of-description 50)
    Current maximum columns of description: 50
    T

    CL-REPL> (qs:? 'lisp-koans :du 1)

    SEARCH-RESULTS: "lisp-koans"
    ============================

     GitHub
     ------
      lisp-koans
          https://github.com/google/lisp-koans
          Common Lisp Koans is a language learning
          exercise in the same vein as the ruby koans,
          python koans and others.   It is a port of
          the prior koans with some modifications to
          highlight lisp-specific features.
          Structured as ordered groups of broken unit
          tests, the project guides the learner
          progressively through many Common Lisp
          language features.
      .......> 4
    T

 * `:maximum-columns-of-description` controls in printing description (default is 80).


Reference Manual
----------------

#### [function] QUICKSEARCH _search-word_ _&key_ _?web_ _?description_ _?url_ _?cut-off_ _?quicklisp_ _?cliki_ _?github_ _?bitbucket_

QUICKSEARCH searches for CL projects with _search-word_ in Quicklisp, Cliki, GitHub and BitBucket.
_search-word_ must be a string, number or symbol (symbol will be automatically converted into downcase-string).


##### Keywords:

 * If _?web_ is NIL, it does not search in Cliki, GitHub and BitBucket.
 * If _?quicklisp_ is NIL, it does not search in Quicklisp (also _?cliki_, _?github_, _?bitbucket_).
 * At least one search-space must be specified.
 * If _?description_ is T, it displays project's descriptions (QuickDocs-url for Quicklisp-search).
 * If _?url_ is T, it display project's url.
 * _?cut-off_ is the max number of printing repositories each space.


##### Note:

 * _?cut-off_ controls only printing results,
   nothing to do with the max number of fetching repositories.
   see. function CONFIG documentation

 * About #\Space in _search-word_:

   In case _search-word_ contains #\Space, Quicklisp-search is OR-search,
   whereas Cliki-search, GitHub-, BitBucket- is AND-search.

   e.g. (quicksearch "foo bar")
     Quicklisp-search for "foo" OR "bar".
     Cliki-search, GitHub-, BitBucket- for "foo" AND "bar".


#### [function] ? _search-word_ _&rest_ _options_

? is abbreviation wrapper for function QUICKSEARCH.
_search-word_ must be a string, number or symbol.
_options_ must be a non-negative integer (as Cut-Off) and/or some keywords which consists of some Option-Chars.


##### Examples:

    (? "crypt")
    <=>
    (quicksearch "crypt" :?description nil :?url nil :?cut-off 50
                         :?quicklisp t :?cliki t :?github t :?bitbucket t)

    (? "crypt" :du 10)
    <=>
    (quicksearch "crypt" :?description T :?url T :?cut-off 10
                         :?quicklisp t :?cliki t :?github t :?bitbucket t)

    (? "crypt" 20 :g :d)
    <=>
    (quicksearch "crypt" :?description T :?url nil :?cut-off 20
                         :?quicklisp nil :?cliki nil :?github T :?bitbucket nil)


##### Options:

 * Cut-Off:
   * The max number of printing results (default is 50).

 * Option-Chars:
   * d, D -- output Description (or QuickDocs-url for Quicklisp-search)
   * u, U -- output URL
   * q, Q -- search in Quicklisp
   * c, C -- search in Cliki
   * g, G -- search in GitHub
   * b, B -- search in Bitbucket


##### Note:

 * Option-Char is idempotent (e.g. :dd <=> :d).
 * The order of Option-Chars is nothing to do with output. (e.g. :du <=> :ud)
 * If _options_ contains more than 2 Cut-Offs, only last one is applied.
 * The order of _options_ is nothing to do with output (except for some Cut-Offs).
 * If no search space is specified, all spaces is specified (e.g. :d <=> :dqcgb)
 * If at most one search space is specified, then others are not specified.


#### [function] CONFIG _&key_ _maximum-columns-of-description_ _maximum-number-of-fetching-repositories_ _cache-size_ _clear-cache?_ _threading?_ _quicklisp-verbose?_

Function CONFIG customizes printing, fetching or caching.


##### Keywords:

 * _:maximum-columns-of-description_
   The value must be a plus integer bigger than 5.
   If the length of description-string is bigger than this value,
   then output of description is inserted newline for easy to see.
   Default value is 80.

 * _:maximum-number-of-fetching-repositories_
   This value controls the number of fetching repositories.
   The value must be a plus integer.
   Increasing this value, the number of fetching repositories increases, but also space & time does.
   Default value is 50.

 * _:cache-size_
   The value must be a plus integer.
   This value is the number of stored previous search-results.
   Increasing this value, the number of caching results increases, but also space does.
   Default value is 4.

 * _:clear-cache?_
   The value must be a boolean.
   If value is T, then clear all caches.

 * _:threading?_
   The value must be a boolean (default T).
   If value is NIL, then QUICKSEARCH becomes not to use threads for searching.

   Note:
     Currently in SBCL (1.1.8), threads are part of the default build on x86[-64] Linux only.
     Other platforms (x86[-64] Darwin (Mac OS X), x86[-64] FreeBSD, x86 SunOS (Solaris),
     and PPC Linux) experimentally supports threads and must be explicitly enabled at build-time.
     For more details, please see [SBCL manual](http://www.sbcl.org/manual/index.html#Threading).

 * _quicklisp-verbose?_
   The value must be a boolean (default NIL).
   If value is T, then outputs version of quicklisp and whether library had installed your local.

   Example:
```
     CL-REPL> (qs:config :quicklisp-verbose? T)
     CL-REPL> (qs:? "json" :q)

     SEARCH-RESULTS: "json"

      Quicklisp: 2013-04-20   ;<- quicklisp version
       !cl-json               ;<- if library has installed via quicklisp, print prefix "!".
       !cl-json.test
       com.gigamonkeys.json   ;<- if not, none.
       json-template
       st-json
     T
```


##### Note:

If you would prefer permanent config, for example,
add codes something like the following in the CL init file.

In `.sbclrc` for SBCL, `ccl-init.lisp` for CCL:

    (ql:quickload :quicksearch)
    (qs:config :maximum-columns-of-description 50
               :maximum-number-of-fetching-repositories 20
               :cache-size 2
               :threading? nil
               :quicklisp-verbose? t)


#### [special variable] \*USER-AGENT\*

\*user-agent\* tells the server who is requested (i.e. User-Agent header value).
If you are embedding quicksearch in a larger application, you should
change the value of \*user-agent\* to your application name and URL.


TODO
----

- ADD search-space: Common-Lisp.net
- ADD search-space: Google code


Author, License, Copyright
--------------------------

- Takaya OCHIAI  <#.(reverse "moc.liamg@lper.hcykt")>

- MIT License

- Copyright (C) 2013 Takaya OCHIAI

Commit message:

quicksearch's arguments starting with ? are replaced and deprecated

README.md, after:

Last modified: 2014-04-13 12:00:30 tkych

Version: 0.01.04 (beta)


Quicksearch
===========

Quicksearch is a search-engine-interface for Common Lisp.
The goal of Quicksearch is to find the CL library quickly.
For example, if you want to find libraries about json, just type `(qs:? 'json)`
at the REPL.

The function `quicksearch` searches for CL projects on Quicklisp, Cliki,
GitHub and BitBucket, then outputs results in the REPL.
The function `?` is an abbreviation wrapper for `quicksearch`.

`quicksearch` accepts arguments in a long form: `:url`, `:description`,
etc, and `?` has the same in their short form: `:u`, `:d`, and they are agglutinated: `(qs:? :ud)`.

Depends-on
----------

 * [bordeaux-threads](http://common-lisp.net/project/bordeaux-threads/)
 * [iterate](http://common-lisp.net/project/iterate/)
 * [alexandria](http://common-lisp.net/project/alexandria/)
 * [anaphora](http://common-lisp.net/project/anaphora/)
 * [cl-ppcre](http://weitz.de/cl-ppcre/)
 * [drakma](http://weitz.de/drakma/)
 * [html-entities](https://code.google.com/p/html-entities/)
 * [yason](http://common-lisp.net/project/yason/)
 * [flexi-streams](http://weitz.de/flexi-streams/)
 * [do-urlencode](https://github.com/drdo/do-urlencode)


Installation
------------

#### cl-test-grid results:

 - http://common-lisp.net/project/cl-test-grid/library/quicksearch.html


##### Auto:

 0. CL-REPL> `(ql:quickload :quicksearch)`


##### Manual:

 0. SHELL$   `git clone https://github.com/tkych/quicksearch.git`
 1. CL-REPL> `(push #p"/path-to-quicksearch/quicksearch/" asdf:*central-registry*)`
 2. CL-REPL> `(ql:quickload :quicksearch)` or `(asdf:load-system :quicksearch)`


Examples
--------

##### Null result:

    CL-REPL> (qs:? "supercalifragilisticexpialidocious") ;<=> (qs:quicksearch "supercalifragilisticexpialidocious")
    NIL

 * If it raises a threading error, probably your CL system might be not support threads.
   In this case, please type `(qs:config :threading? nil)` at REPL, then try it again.
 * If search-results is null, then just return NIL.


##### Simple search:

    CL-REPL> (qs:? "crypt") ;<=> (qs:quicksearch "crypt")

    SEARCH-RESULTS: "crypt"

     Quicklisp
      crypt

     Cliki
      ARC4
      JARW
      VLM_on_Linux

     GitHub
      cl-crypt
      cl-crypto
      cl-crypto
      cryptography
      cryptoschool
      Cryptopsaras
    T

 * If search-results is not null, then results are printed and return T.
 * Since bitbucket-result is null, it is not printed.


##### Description:

    CL-REPL> (qs:? 'Crypt :d) ;<=> (qs:quicksearch 'Crypt :?description t)

    SEARCH-RESULTS: "crypt"
    =======================

     Quicklisp
     ---------
      crypt
          http://quickdocs.org/cl-crypt/

     Cliki
     -----
      ARC4
          A Common Lisp implementation of ARC4, a Cryptography code, can be found on
          the
      JARW
          Dr John AR Williams' utilities
      VLM_on_Linux
          Instructions for running the Symbolics VLM virtual machine on Linux

     GitHub
     ------
      cl-crypt
          Common-Lisp implementation of unix crypt function
      cl-crypto
          A common lisp package of ciphers, public-key algorithms, etc.
      cl-crypto
          Pure lisp crypto, written from specs
      cryptography
          implementations of ciphers for cryptography class
      cryptoschool
          Lisp files related to the cryptography class being taught by Ben Warner
      Cryptopsaras
          Reads files generated by Acinonyx.
    T

 * A symbol (as search-word) is automatically converted into a downcase-string.
 * If option `:d` is on, then the description of the project is printed (QuickDocs-url for Quicklisp-search).
 * The function QUICKSEARCH's options are redundant, but explanatory.
 * The function ?'s options are not explanatory, but minimum.


##### URL, Space, Cutoff:

    CL-REPL> (qs:? "crypt" :ug 4) ;<=> (qs:quicksearch "crypt"
                                  ;                    :?url t :?cut-off 4
                                  ;                    :?quicklisp nil :?cliki nil :?bitbucket nil)

    SEARCH-RESULTS: "crypt"
    =======================

     GitHub
     ------
      cl-crypt
          https://github.com/renard/cl-crypt
      cl-crypto
          https://github.com/bgs100/cl-crypto
      cl-crypto
          https://github.com/billstclair/cl-crypto
      cryptography
          https://github.com/MorganBauer/cryptography
      .......> 2
    T

 * If option `:u` is on, then the project's url is printed.
 * If option `:g` is on, then only github-results are printed
   (also `:q` - quicklisp, `:c` - cliki, `:b` - bitbutcket. these options are addable).
 * If cut-off is supplied (above 4), then the number of output results is bellow cut-off
   (the number (above 2) after `.......>` is number of remains).
 * The order of options is nothing to do with search-result
   (e.g. `:ug 4` <=> `4 :gu` <=> `:u 4 :g` <=> ...).


##### Config:

    CL-REPL> (qs:? 'lisp-koans :du 1) ;<=> (qs:quicksearch 'lisp-koans
                                      ;                    :?description t :?url t :?cut-off 1)

    SEARCH-RESULTS: "lisp-koans"
    ============================

     GitHub
     ------
      lisp-koans
          https://github.com/google/lisp-koans
          Common Lisp Koans is a language learning exercise in the same vein as the
          ruby koans, python koans and others.   It is a port of the prior koans
          with some modifications to highlight lisp-specific features.  Structured
          as ordered groups of broken unit tests, the project guides the learner
          progressively through many Common Lisp language features.
      .......> 4
    T

    CL-REPL> (qs:config :maximum-columns-of-description 50)
    Current maximum columns of description: 50
    T

    CL-REPL> (qs:? 'lisp-koans :du 1)

    SEARCH-RESULTS: "lisp-koans"
    ============================

     GitHub
     ------
      lisp-koans
          https://github.com/google/lisp-koans
          Common Lisp Koans is a language learning
          exercise in the same vein as the ruby koans,
          python koans and others.   It is a port of
          the prior koans with some modifications to
          highlight lisp-specific features.
          Structured as ordered groups of broken unit
          tests, the project guides the learner
          progressively through many Common Lisp
          language features.
      .......> 4
    T

 * `:maximum-columns-of-description` controls in printing description (default is 80).


Reference Manual
----------------

#### [function] QUICKSEARCH _search-word_ _&key_ _?web_ _?description_ _?url_ _?cut-off_ _?quicklisp_ _?cliki_ _?github_ _?bitbucket_

QUICKSEARCH searches for CL projects with _search-word_ in Quicklisp, Cliki, GitHub and BitBucket.
_search-word_ must be a string, number or symbol (symbol will be automatically converted into downcase-string).


##### Keywords:

 * If _?web_ is NIL, it does not search in Cliki, GitHub and BitBucket.
 * If _?quicklisp_ is NIL, it does not search in Quicklisp (also _?cliki_, _?github_, _?bitbucket_).
 * At least one search-space must be specified.
 * If _?description_ is T, it displays project's descriptions (QuickDocs-url for Quicklisp-search).
 * If _?url_ is T, it display project's url.
 * _?cut-off_ is the max number of printing repositories each space.


##### Note:

 * _?cut-off_ controls only printing results,
   nothing to do with the max number of fetching repositories.
   see. function CONFIG documentation

 * About #\Space in _search-word_:

   In case _search-word_ contains #\Space, Quicklisp-search is OR-search,
   whereas Cliki-search, GitHub-, BitBucket- is AND-search.

   e.g. (quicksearch "foo bar")
     Quicklisp-search for "foo" OR "bar".
     Cliki-search, GitHub-, BitBucket- for "foo" AND "bar".


#### [function] ? _search-word_ _&rest_ _options_

? is abbreviation wrapper for function QUICKSEARCH.
_search-word_ must be a string, number or symbol.
_options_ must be a non-negative integer (as Cut-Off) and/or some keywords which consists of some Option-Chars.


##### Examples:

    (? "crypt")
    <=>
    (quicksearch "crypt" :?description nil :?url nil :?cut-off 50
                         :?quicklisp t :?cliki t :?github t :?bitbucket t)

    (? "crypt" :du 10)
    <=>
    (quicksearch "crypt" :?description T :?url T :?cut-off 10
                         :?quicklisp t :?cliki t :?github t :?bitbucket t)

    (? "crypt" 20 :g :d)
    <=>
    (quicksearch "crypt" :?description T :?url nil :?cut-off 20
                         :?quicklisp nil :?cliki nil :?github T :?bitbucket nil)


##### Options:

 * Cut-Off:
   * The max number of printing results (default is 50).

 * Option-Chars:
   * d, D -- output Description (or QuickDocs-url for Quicklisp-search)
   * u, U -- output URL
   * q, Q -- search in Quicklisp
   * c, C -- search in Cliki
   * g, G -- search in GitHub
   * b, B -- search in Bitbucket


##### Note:

 * Option-Char is idempotent (e.g. :dd <=> :d).
 * The order of Option-Chars is nothing to do with output. (e.g. :du <=> :ud)
 * If _options_ contains more than 2 Cut-Offs, only last one is applied.
 * The order of _options_ is nothing to do with output (except for some Cut-Offs).
 * If no search space is specified, all spaces is specified (e.g. :d <=> :dqcgb)
 * If at most one search space is specified, then others are not specified.


#### [function] CONFIG _&key_ _maximum-columns-of-description_ _maximum-number-of-fetching-repositories_ _cache-size_ _clear-cache?_ _threading?_ _quicklisp-verbose?_

Function CONFIG customizes printing, fetching or caching.


##### Keywords:

 * _:maximum-columns-of-description_
   The value must be a plus integer bigger than 5.
   If the length of description-string is bigger than this value,
   then output of description is inserted newline for easy to see.
   Default value is 80.

 * _:maximum-number-of-fetching-repositories_
   This value controls the number of fetching repositories.
   The value must be a plus integer.
   Increasing this value, the number of fetching repositories increases, but also space & time does.
   Default value is 50.

 * _:cache-size_
   The value must be a plus integer.
   This value is the number of stored previous search-results.
   Increasing this value, the number of caching results increases, but also space does.
   Default value is 4.

 * _:clear-cache?_
   The value must be a boolean.
   If value is T, then clear all caches.

 * _:threading?_
   The value must be a boolean (default T).
   If value is NIL, then QUICKSEARCH becomes not to use threads for searching.

   Note:
     Currently in SBCL (1.1.8), threads are part of the default build on x86[-64] Linux only.
     Other platforms (x86[-64] Darwin (Mac OS X), x86[-64] FreeBSD, x86 SunOS (Solaris),
     and PPC Linux) experimentally supports threads and must be explicitly enabled at build-time.
     For more details, please see [SBCL manual](http://www.sbcl.org/manual/index.html#Threading).

 * _quicklisp-verbose?_
   The value must be a boolean (default NIL).
   If value is T, then outputs version of quicklisp and whether library had installed your local.

   Example:
```
     CL-REPL> (qs:config :quicklisp-verbose? T)
     CL-REPL> (qs:? "json" :q)

     SEARCH-RESULTS: "json"

      Quicklisp: 2013-04-20   ;<- quicklisp version
       !cl-json               ;<- if library has installed via quicklisp, print prefix "!".
       !cl-json.test
       com.gigamonkeys.json   ;<- if not, none.
       json-template
       st-json
     T
```


##### Note:

If you would prefer permanent config, for example,
add codes something like the following in the CL init file.

In `.sbclrc` for SBCL, `ccl-init.lisp` for CCL:

    (ql:quickload :quicksearch)
    (qs:config :maximum-columns-of-description 50
               :maximum-number-of-fetching-repositories 20
               :cache-size 2
               :threading? nil
               :quicklisp-verbose? t)


#### [special variable] \*USER-AGENT\*

\*user-agent\* tells the server who is requested (i.e. User-Agent header value).
If you are embedding quicksearch in a larger application, you should
change the value of \*user-agent\* to your application name and URL.


TODO
----

- ADD search-space: Common-Lisp.net
- ADD search-space: Google code


Author, License, Copyright
--------------------------

- Takaya OCHIAI  <#.(reverse "moc.liamg@lper.hcykt")>

- MIT License

- Copyright (C) 2013 Takaya OCHIAI
